# Directory Structure

Here are guidelines for directory structure and naming conventions in this repository.

An organized structure and naming convention makes it easier for visitors
to find the relevant information, and for contributors to submit pull requests.
This repository also serves as the data source for a front-end site
[Zaber Code Examples](https://software.zaber.com/examples).
It is important to adhere to a consistent naming convention because it will
enable the website to index, parse, and display the examples automatically.

Here's an overview of the directory structure, with explanation of the individual
files and directories to follow.

    zabertech/zaber-examples/
    │
    ├── .editorconfig
    ├── .gitignore
    ├── LICENSE
    ├── README.md
    ├── .github/
    │   └── workflows
    │       └──check_examples.yml
    │   
    ├── docs/
    │   ├── CONTRIBUTING.md
    │   ├── cpp.md
    │   ├── csharp.md
    │   ├── directory-structure.md
    │   ├── example-subdirectory-naming.md
    │   ├── java.md
    │   ├── matlab.md
    │   ├── pull-requests.md
    │   ├── python.md
    │   ├── readme-guidelines.md
    │   ├── typescript.md
    │   ├── virtual-environment.md
    │   └── img/
    │
    ├── src/
    │   ├── _template/
    │   │   ├── README.md
    │   │   ├── cpp/
    │   │   ├── csharp/
    │   │   ├── img/
    │   │   ├── javascript/
    │   │   └── python/
    │   │
    │   ├── categoryname1_example_name1/
    │   ├── categoryname1_example_name2/
    │   ├── category_name2_another_example/
    │   ├── ...
    │   └── <category_name>_<example_name>/
    │       ├── README.md
    │       ├── csharp/
    │       │   ├── ...
    │       │   └── ...
    │       ├── img/
    │       └── python/
    │           ├── Pipfile
    │           ├── Pipfile.lock
    │           └── main.py
    │
    └── tools/
        └── check_examples
            ├── README.md
            ├── check.py
            └── ...

## Files and Directories under `(root)`

These are files and directories found under the root of the `zaber-examples` repository.

### [.editorconfig](../.editorconfig)

This is a simple configuration file that sets some basic coding styles in your code editor or IDE.
For more information visit <https://editorconfig.org/>

### [.gitignore](../.gitignore)

This file tells `git` which files should not be checked into the repository.
This `.gitignore` file within this repository should only be specific to the project -
the languages, frameworks, linters, and files generated by the build process.

This file may also contain OS, code-editor, or IDE specific items that relate to the specific
setup of the user, although best practice is to exclude those files
by setting up a global `.gitignore` specific to your system.

However, for simplicity it is okay to put those files in the project `.gitignore`.

For further reading, see the following articles:

- <http://vinyll.scopyleft.fr/using-gitignore-the-right-way/>
- <https://gist.github.com/subfuzion/db7f57fff2fb6998a16c>

### [LICENSE](../LICENSE)

This is where you will find the license terms and conditions of using this repository.

Please note that if you are contributing to the repository,
you are agreeing that your contributions will also be governed by the same license.

### [README.md](../README.md)

This is the main documentation that a visitor will see on the home page of the repository.

## [Directory `/docs/`](../docs/)

This directory contains documentation and guidelines that applies to all of the examples.

### [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md)

This is the starting point if you want to contribute examples or bug fixes to this repository.

### [directory-structure.md](directory-structure.md)

This file itself.  Gives a "sitemap" of all the files within this repository.

### [example-subdirectory-naming.md](example-subdirectory-naming.md)

Describe the naming convention for example subdirectories.

### [pull-requests.md](pull-requests.md)

Instructions on how to branch and initiate a pull request to get your contribution reviewed
and merged into the repository.

### [readme-guidelines.md](readme-guidelines.md)

Guideline on how to write a `README.md` file for each example.
This is the documentation that a visitor will see when they navigate to the example subdirectory.

### (language).md

Each language has a document outlining the coding style and best practices to follow
for the example code in this repository, including recommendation for linters,
virtual environment, setup, etc.  For example, [python.md](python.md).

## [Directory `src/`](../src/)

This directory contains all the example subdirectories.

### [Subdirectory `_template/`](../src/_template/)

This is a template for setting up a new example subdirectory.  Make a copy of this template and
rename it to make a start contributing to a new example.

### Example Subirectories `<category_name>_<example_name>/`

These are where all the example lives, each one self-contained in its own subdirectory.
See [Example Subdirectory Naming Convention](example-subdirectory-naming.md) for more detail
on naming guidelines.

#### README.md

This is the `README.md` file for each example subdirectory.  It contains example-specific
explanations and documentation.  This file is both meant to be read by human visitors, and also
parsed by machine to be displayed on Zaber's developer documentation website.
Please see [README Guidelines](readme-guidelines.md) on how to write the file to be useful for
both people and machine.

#### img/

Subdirectory for where all the images and figures refereneced in `README.md` live.

#### Language Subdirectories

Each example subdirectory may contain examples in multiple languages.

Some examples are translated into several programming languages.
If this is the case, the code for each translation should be in a subdirectory of the main project
named for the implementation language.

For consistency, please use the following language subdirectories names.
If you want to contribute to a language not listed here please add it to the list:

- `python/`
- `matlab/`
- `csharp/`
- `cpp/`
- `javascript/`
- `typescript/`
- `java/`
- `octave/`

## [Directory `tools/`](../tools/)

This directory contains tools used for CI/CD, and maintenance of this repository.

### [Subdirectory `check_examples`](../tools/check_examples/)

A python script for running linters on examples.
This script is also called as part of the [CI runner script](../.github/workflows/check_examples.yml).
